# AI-Desktop-Voice-Assistant
AI assistant or digital assistant, is an application program that understands natural language voice commands and completes tasks for the user.


Our virtual assistant will able to do the followings things-
Weather forecasting, Launch Games, Launch Windows Applications, Open Websites, tells you about almost everything you ask, tells you date and time, greetings, news, etc.

How this will happen?
You can interact with your laptop’s microphone/console. The response generated by the assistant will display on the console or as a speech via the speaker.

To get the work done by simply giving commands to AI assistant is the main purpose.
This AI assistant has purely build in Python, by using multiple libraries of python.
Following Modules have been used:

1.PYTTSX3:

The pyttsx3 is an offline module that is used for text to speech conversion in Python and it is supported by both Python 2 & 3. The run and wait functionality is also in this module only. It determines how much time the system will wait for another input or in other words the time interval between inputs. This is a free module available in the python community which can be installed using the pip command just like other modules.

2.DATETIME:

 The DateTime module is imported to support the functionality of the date and time. In short this module supports classes to manipulate date and time and perform operations according to it only.
 
3.SPEECH RECOGNITION
Speech recognition is the process of converting spoken words to text. Python supports many speech recognition engines and APIs, including Google Speech Engine, Google Cloud Speech API, Microsoft Bing Voice Recognition and IBM Speech to Text. You can install this by pip install. [ This requires 'pyaudio' library which will needs to install seperately]

4.WEBBROWSER 

This module allows the system to display web-based information to users. For example, the user wants to open any website and he gives input as “Open Google”. The input is processed using the web browser module and the user gets a browser with Google opened in it. The browser which will be used is the default set web browser. D. WIKIPEDIA Wikipedia is a library in python which it possible for the virtual assistant to process the queries regarding Wikipedia and display the results to users. This is an online library and needs an internet connection to fetch the results. The no. of lines that the user wants to get as a result can be set manually. 

5.OS MODULE

OS Module provides an operating system dependent functionalities. If we want to perform operations on files like reading, writing, or manipulate paths, all these types of functionalities are available in an OS module. All the operations available raise an error “OSError” in case of any error like invalid names, paths, or arguments which may be incorrect or correct but just no accepted by the operating system. 

6.SMTPLIB

Python has this module for in the standard library for working with emails & email servers. The SMTPLIB defines an object known as “SMTP client session object” which is used to send mails by the user. There are 3 steps involved - initialize, sendmail(), quit. When the optional parameters which are host and port, are provided connect method is called with these arguments during the first step which is initialization.



 










